Talking about exciting thing for an engineer, the same
Snapdragon that goes to a phone and it can go to a Galaxy
phone, for example, Samsung, the same, not a special one, went
all the way to Mars. You expect to have a full day of battery
life. But then you wanted to not be sending data into 10 or
100 megabits, you want gigabits, you wanted to be able to
have eight core processors, you want to have a GPU with rate
tracing, you want to have all of those things that you can
only get into sometimes a desktop PC. To do all of that in
your phone is an incredible thing.
Some people raise concerns about there not being enough
studies about the effects of 5G on the human body. It's 5G
safe.
The following is a conversation with Cristiano Aman, the
CEO of Qualcomm, the company that's one of the leaders in the
world in the space of mobile communication and computation.
That's 2G, 3G, 4G and 5G that connects billions of phones and
the Snapdragon processor and system on a chip that is the
brain of most of the premium Android phones in the world.
This is a Lex Freeman podcast. To support it, please check out
our sponsors in the description. And now, dear friends,
here's Cristiano Aman.
You are originally from Brazil, so let me ask the most
important question, the most profound question, the biggest
question. Who's the greatest football soccer player of all
time?
Look, everybody's going to say Pele. And actually, I was born
during the game of Brazil and Italy that Pele gave Brazil
the championship. Actually, my dad tells me that the doctor
had a TV on at the delivery room. But so everybody will say
Pele, but I really like Ronaldo. The first Ronaldo, the first
Ronaldo, I really like him. That's my favorite player.
By the way, not everybody would say Pele. But we should leave
that on the table and agree to disagree.
Brazilians will say Pele.
Yes. There's other countries around that region that made
you may disagree a little. Very aware. Qualcomm is largely
responsible for 5G and some of the greatest processors in our
smartphones ever built. So we got communication and
computation tech that impacts probably billions of people. So
if you zoom out, use a human, look at humans on earth in
general, does it blow your mind that we have these billions of
smartphones communicating? And each of them have the
computational power? You know, you talk about 10 billion
transistors. That's a million times more than 50 years ago in
the best computers in the world. Like if you just zoom out as a
human, does that blow your mind?
Absolutely. Look, one of the reasons I think I love this
company is we know that the technology we develop can change
the world. And I'll tell you one more thing. Beyond the amount of
processing power that you have now and the palm of your hands
and being every one of the word is connected with broadband
technology. The smartphone is also mankind's largest
development platform. There's nothing like it.
So you respect both the hardware and the software?
Both. Both. If aliens were observing earth over the past
50 to 70 years, how do you think they would describe this
particular turmoil, fun things going on on the surface of this
particular little planet?
We live in interesting times. In one time, we see incredible
development of technology for mankind just to happen in the
last century. You know, the night from 1900 to the 2000, it
was incredible development. Just look 2000 or 22 years ago, how
far we're coming and where we go in with technology. It's
incredible.
What do you think they would notice? So there's road
networks, there's all kinds of networks, there's, there's lights
that keep popping up cities, bringing up like it from an
alien perspective, you're observing.
Well, what I'm going to tell you is you have this contrast of
incredible development of technology, but then you see
some of the things that are happening right now, which is
probably will not expect them to happen on the 21st century,
just won't happen in Ukraine. So I think that that will be a
more puzzling question for the aliens, I would imagine.
The new technology is kind of impressive. Actually, they might
not be so puzzling because that's just human nature revealing
itself as it has throughout human history.
That's correct.
Let's talk about wireless communication. So Qualcomm was
instrumental in developing 5G. Now you were with Qualcomm since
the early days, the good old 90s with the 2G. But what is
5G, including sub six gigahertz 5G and middle matter wave 5G?
How does it work? And maybe the most important question is how
will it change the world in the coming years?
When we set ourselves to develop 5G, and, you know, we look
at this, every generation of technology had a problem to be
solved, right? So you mentioned 2G, 2G challenge, the
challenge of CDMA was, can we give every person on Earth a
cell phone? That was, can you get to a technology that you can
basically allow everyone to have a mobile phone? 3G was about
the ability to connect that to the internet. I think 4G was
broadband and with 4G was about have the ability for you to
have a computer in the palm of your hand. We just talk about
that. 5G, the challenge was a little bit different. It's how
do we build a technology for a society that is going to be a
hundred percent connected to the cloud? How do we provide a
technology that is going to be the last mile connectivity for
everything? So 5G is basically been designed, eliminate all
issues with data congestion, whether you are in a stadium,
we talk about soccer, you're in a stadium and everyone should
be ability to have access to broadband. So deal with congestion.
Deal with the fact that not only people, but billions of
things need to be connected. Create a technology that for the
first time in Warless, you could deliver mission critical
services. Warless used to up to 4G is is best effort. In 5G, it
can guarantee that you're connected with the cloud. And
then the last point of that is provide this fabric that will
allow us as a society to look at things that are not connected
and say that's the exception. That's why we made a comparison
in the early days of 5G that that's going to be like
electricity. Right now you don't have a discussion about what
is the use cases for electricity. You don't talk about that
anymore. You just assume it's there and that's how we think
about everything connected to the cloud. That's what 5G is
and that's the role of 5G.
So first of all, everything connected to the cloud is
interesting because the space of everything is constantly
increasing. That is correct. You know, I don't think the
refrigerator over there looks kind of smart, but I don't think
it's connected yet to the cloud. So this includes Internet of
Things. What is the full space of everything? The full space of
everything is it's maybe going back to where you start
defining Qualcomm. Qualcomm is about communications and
advanced computers for low power devices. And can we make
everything smart? You know, it can range from the robot you
have right now on the floor, to your refrigerator, to a
camera, to, you know, machines and manufacturing, to retail,
etc. I can give you some examples. When we think of
something as simple as going to the grocery shop, we see
technology now with something that stuff would be working
with companies like Walmart, electronic shelf labels, the
ability for you to have smart cameras that can look at shelves
and can the camera is smart enough to say some product
needs to be replenished, ability to see what's trapped. So
it's about really providing processor connectivity,
artificial intelligence to everything. And I think that's
one of the largest addressable markets we have for
technology because you can't really define everything.
Right, exactly. It's a nice market because it keeps growing
potentially exponentially in speed. What about coverage? So
how are we doing on the everything part? So, you know,
there is, like I mentioned, sub six gigahertz 5G and
there's a millimeter wave 5G. So not all 5G is made the
same. So there's a speed, there's a bandwidth thing. And
then there's coverage. How many people get to enjoy today?
And how does the progress of the next 5, 10, 20, 30, 50
years you think it looks like in terms of coverage?
Great topic of conversation. So let's talk about this.
When I meet with regulators across the globe, I tell them
resistance is futile, allocate every spectrum to wireless.
Every spectrum needs to be allocated to wireless. The
reality is when we start moving from CDMA to OFDMA, we knew
that there's this industry has done a lot to get more bits
per hertz. But the reality is the massive amount of
improvements that is required in capacity and in speed, you
need more spectrum. You know, there's there's not so much
we can rely on more bits per hertz. You just need more
spectrum. And if you look, for example, what carriers
since the 2G era, they participate in different
license and auctions and every spectrum they accumulated
from 2G or 3G or 4G, all of that you may be able to get
one or two channels max of subsets, which is a channel
is about 100 megahertz or 200 megahertz. And that's it.
So we need more spectrum. So 5G has been designed to work
across every spectrum from the low frequency bands.
That's what we call the sub six. But you needed more. You
needed to go to the millimeter wave. So that's why
5G is a technology that you can deploy from 450 megahertz as
an example or 600 or 700, all the way to in the 42
gigahertz. And that's where millimeter wave comes
into the picture. Now, let's now connect this to your question
about coverage of 5G. The easiest thing to do is to
deploy 5G in the new spectrum you can get, which is in the
sub six, you see bands being auctioned across the globe
into 3.5 gigahertz. There's nothing special about the
band. Is this the one on one that was available because
everything else being useful for G and you can deploy on
that going to existing cell towers and just put a new
equipment without having to build new towers. But when we
go to technologies just millimeter wave, then you
have to build more dense networks. You need to build
more stations because a deployment in that case
looked like a Wi Fi deployment. It's almost like Wi Fi
access points. When you need to build more stations, you
need permits, you need to build fiber so it takes more
time to densify. So what you see happening is
coverage has been built fast with sub six across the
globe. But now the United States also have the sub six. So
that gets you to coverage very fast. But millimeter wave,
it's moving. And if you all will say, for example,
Verizon, United States has had a leadership in building
millimeter wave. It takes time. I'll say cities like
Chicago, Manhattan, starting to get coverage.
It will be a process over a number of years as you build
those different access point type networks, but it's
inevitable. There's not enough spectrum. So every 5G
operators just a matter of time will have millimeter
wave as well. Resistance is futile. Okay, so for
millimeter wave, we need density of access points. And
what's the biggest resistance for Qualcomm, for human
civilization? Is it politicians, regulators,
federal regulators? Is it individual humans? Is it
not enough money from the consumer perspective? Like
who is the biggest pain in the butt? From a Qualcomm
standpoint, but answering the question about what it
takes to build all this technology. I think regulators
across the board understood the importance of 5G. I
have not met a regulator that said it's really
important to be late on 5G. I don't think anybody
wants to be late on 5G. And as a result, we've seen
enormous amount of progress in getting spectrum
allocated to 5G. I think the real issue is the time
that it takes to build infrastructure. You know,
investment in 5G infrastructure, especially millimeter
wave, is like building roads and ports. It's critical
infrastructure. And those things take time. Like one of
the number one obstacles you're going to hear from
operators is site permit. You know, sometimes they have
to negotiate municipality by municipality about
permits to get new cell sites. But you know, the
networks will be densified and you're going to need
all of the capacity for the promise of the fully
immersive augmented reality that will replace
phones and everything being connected 100% of the
time. This would not be a conversation with the
CEO if I did not ask questions that make you
nervous. Some people raise concerns about there not
being enough studies about the effects of 5G on the
human body. Is 5G safe? Look, I have a very simple
answer to this question. As we build new capabilities
such as 5G, power is going down. Especially when
you think about reducing the number of base
stations, the networks becoming more dense. So as
you do that, the power becomes lower. Power radiated
from the phone and from the tower. As you get
closer to the tower, you don't need that much power
to reach the tower. So as we move from 4G to 5G, I
think we see a reduction in the amount of powers
required to close the radio link. Now, also you
have a number of organizations. The FCC, for
example, has rigorous programs, which they do a
lot of tests to validate the safety of those
devices. And I think we have has been a model for
other countries also to adopt the same things.
Cellular has been around for a number of decades now.
I think smartphones are most beloved device
today. And I would argue how it's difficult to
answer those questions. But I'll argue that the
data to date, have we seen in 3G and 4G,
you know, has shown that a lot of the initial
concerns were not valid. We look at 5G, even though
it's new, it's just less power. So we look at
from a physics standpoint. So from a physics,
from a biology perspective, there's a lot of
evidence, there's studies that show that it's not
dangerous, that it is in fact safe. However, the
concern that people have is when you scale
technology exponentially, how will that change
human civilization? I mean, that doesn't apply to
5G, that applies to every technology. You said
smartphone is the most beloved device, but love
sometimes hurts. The impact on society, we don't
know. And there's a little bit of fear, there's
both excitement and fear. It's a great topic, a
conversation, actually. So let me give you
my perspective on this. And you started to see
some things actually happening right now. So
let me step back. And let's talk about the fact
that we are in a fully interconnected society.
That when you look of the situations today, we
talk about smartphones, largest development
platform, so much now of our life, we are
connected to the smartphone. And we are all
connected and we're connected. And then we're
building digital twins of everything. So when
you look at that picture, when you look at the
picture of this connected society, you started
to have the following thoughts, which I think
are very healthy, which means in the same way
that in the physical world, you're entitled to
some rights, you have obligations, and there's
a lot of things that protect your
integrity. I think as a rule, we're going to
see the society evolving, so those things
extend to your digital being of people and
things. And I think it's just natural. It's just
natural. It's just a natural path. And you
started to see things like that. For example,
the Europeans have done a lot in this area.
I'll say the Europeans probably ahead in the
United States, thinking about privacy laws,
digital privacy law. Most recently, the DMA,
the Digital Markets Act, which I think is a
great thing. I think we believe there's
incredible thought into enabling ability to
regulate the digital market so that there's
innovation and competitions. Not a single
company can control all the data and then
decide how things are going to work on the
digital realm. And even if we think about
the potential things like the metaverses,
we're connecting physical and digital
spaces. So I think it's a natural evolution.
Of course, regulation and laws always
follow technology. But the fact that we're
moving toward interconnected society,
there's no going back. We are a fully
interconnected society. But there is
opportunity to think about how the
digital to win should people and
governments should think about it so
that we get the best of a technology
without any downside. Yeah. So when you say
digital to win, that's one of the other
things you're excited about, which is the
metaverse, are basically building worlds
in the digital space. And you have to
start to think about all the basic human
rights that transfer from our physical
meat vehicles out to the digital copies
of ourselves, representations of ourselves.
That's really important to think about.
The thing you mentioned about regulators
that has been, this is me speaking,
frustrating, is like you said, they follow
technology. So sometimes they don't get
the technology at all. So they're very
clumsy in writing laws that censor that
technology in interesting ways. They
mean good, but they can do a lot of
unintended damage. Now both, it's a dance.
It's a beautiful dance, but I just wish
governments were better dance partners.
I just see what they're kind of writing
now about regulating social media and
platforms like YouTube. And it's just
really, really clumsy. They don't
understand how machine learning works.
I recommend their systems work. And I just
wish they kind of caught up a little
more because it's really important to be
great at regulation. But also it's
important to let companies flourish and
embrace this new wave of technology.
That weird dance. I'm more and more
learning, looking at public policy, how
much positive government can do and how
much clumsy negative it can do.
Unintentionally, just out of sheer
incompetence or lack of curiosity about
tech. That's my rant about regulators.
I think it's a valid point. As I said
before, I think the Europeans probably
have a very good framework, but the
way I'll think about it, we depend on
have the ability to innovate. We depend
on the free markets. We depend on the
ability to create technology that
will be disruptive. But at the same time,
I think the tech companies probably
should spend time helping governments
understand, helping understand ahead of
time so that they can be better
prepared.
Let's talk about one of my favorite
topics. Snap Dragon. So Snap Dragon is a
system on a chip. This processor has
probably powered billions of smartphones
over its pretty long history now, a
decade and a half maybe. So it's
constantly iterating. There's constant
just like a turmoil of beautiful
innovations happening. So last year was
Snap Dragon 888. It was the main one
with the 5 nanometer and this year it's
Snap Dragon 8 Gen 1. It's a new naming
scheme. Okay, what's the sexiest, most
beautiful idea or concept to you about
Snap Dragon? Let's start there. The way I
will describe it, and I think the reason
we have been successful with it, is to
really understand how to build a
platform, a single chip, like a single
chip, that will have every single
capability if you want to make this
smartphone and the palm of your hand,
you know, something that has all of
your computing needs. And it was the
ability to get, from an engineering
standpoint, ability to get into a
single chip of not only all possible
connectivity technology, from cell
alert, to Wi Fi, to Bluetooth, to every
single constellation of satellites for
position location. But at the same time,
you know, a very power efficient, you
know, single threaded, multi threaded
CPU. A GPU for your, all of your
graphic demands, gaming, fastest growing
segment for gaming, is mobile gaming.
An artificial intelligence processor,
which we call the neural processor
unit. And then a video engine, a
multimedia engine for every single
application, audio, everything. So it's
a single chip that has every single
computing technology you need in the
phone. And what's exciting about it, is
what we already knew, for example, when
you think about camera or computer
vision, you see that the
advancements in the technology now
happens in the smartphone first, versus
additional camera. So the beauty about
the Snapdragon is, we always have this
thing with within Qualcomm. The phone,
it's small, you have to be able to hold
it, you're going to touch your face so
you cannot be hot, you have to manage
thermals, you expect to have a full day
of battery life. But then you wanted to
not be sending data into 10 or 100
megabits, you want gigabits, you wanted
to be able to have eight core processors,
you want to have a GPU with ray tracing,
you want to have all of those things
that you can only get into sometimes a
desktop PC. And to do all of that in your
phone and be able to be in the
leadership position generation after
generation is an incredible thing. And
we're very proud of that at Qualcomm.
Yes, you have to do the Y5, 5G, all the...
And you have to be good at every one of
those technologies. Pack it all in
and there's also pressure to make the
thing faster and faster and faster
and then there's more and more
applications that you're supposed to be
effortlessly using. And then you
mentioned the NPU, GPU, CPU, they have to
also dance together somehow, that to
communicate well, share memory or not
depending on what the application is.
And your battery has to last all day.
So think about that, from a company like
Qualcomm, we have to be good and each and
every one of those technologies, we can
just say, oh, we're a CPU company or a GPU
company or we're AI company, we have to
do everything. What does it take to
design a great processor? So design this
system on a chip that you mentioned, is
there some insight you can provide in
this chaos of engineers, designers,
leaders, the people that think
about how much this is all going to
cause the whole mess of it?
I'm of course very partial about it. I've
been in this company for probably more
than 26 years. But I'll argue that
there are a couple things that are
ingredients for the success. So we talk
about the fact that you have all those
different technologies, they evolve at
their own pace and you have to be good
in each one of them and you needed them
to make them working together.
So you need to have an
engineering organization that's with
incredible collaboration culture
because everybody has to be working. The
train is going to leave the station,
every cart needs to be there. When it
leaves the station, it needs to leave on
time, especially in the phone business.
You can change Christmas, you cannot
change Black Friday, you cannot change
all of the selling seasons. So the phones
are going to launch on time and every
technology needs to be there. The
engineer needs to work as one and we do
have that at Qualcomm. The other thing
you have to have incredible discipline
because those are very complex
systems. So in one way you have to
design with quality because in many
cases we're going to be ramping
production and even before we have the
silicon back and you have to rely on
our simulation models and you have to
rely on the fact that
you design for commercial
applications. That takes a while
to build and it's probably been
the history of a semiconductor
business at Qualcomm. So you mean like
the framework of how many people can
use simulation software and all that
kind of stuff to build the thing
with a hard deadline that you might
not even get back from
like manufacture before. You're not
allowed to have any mistakes. No wonder
our name is quality communications. Oh
I never even thought about the
Qual part. Quality. So quality and
there's a bar that's high and you're
not allowed to mess up. I mean to me as
an engineer that's exciting. Hard
deadlines. No room for mistakes. I love
it. Super stressful but I love it. So
there's a couple of other small
companies
called Google and Apple. So Google is
now using its own chip for the Pixel
6. Apple using its own. How does
Qualcomm outcompete Google and Apple?
How does it beat them? We don't have to
outcompete Google. Actually if you look
of our mobile strategy today and then
one thing I was very clear when I
became CEO. I think there's a lot of
confusion in the market. Our mobile
strategy is very clear. We are focused
of making Snapdragon synonymous with
premium Android experience. That's what
Snapdragon is. Android. The phone of the people.
Yes. I just have a love for Android. No
I'm constantly talking trash to iPhone
people. Sorry go ahead. Premium
Android experiences. So we do
produce Snapdragon in multiple tier
for every price point but you know every
year you mentioned the HN1 and every
year we provide you know the flagship
product and then the other series
that is trying to get the best of
every possible technology at that time.
And it's really focused on enabling the
Android ecosystem. So I'll give an
example. So you asked me the question
how to compete with Google. It's not
about competing with Google. We're the
number one enabler of the Google
Android ecosystem. And the largest
largest and number one customer there
is actually Samsung. And if you look
what happened to Samsung. Samsung
I always had since I began my
began my relationship with them because
they always had their own chip. They
always had their own chip. And if you'll
just look what happened right now with
the Galaxy S22 that just launched. You
know they used to balance their
business about 50% Qualcomm. They will
get the most advanced markets like the
United States and China and Japan and
Korea they will assign a Qualcomm. And
then they'll have their own chip for the
markets that they would will be like
more emerging markets open markets
markets that they have a control on the
channel because they sell a lot of
appliances and other things. If you look
what happened right now GS22. 75% is
Qualcomm. And then the next large OEMs
and Android system are the Chinese
ones. Companies like Xiaomi. One of the
fastest growing. It was number one in
Europe at some point last year. Then
followed by OPPO and OnePlus and Vivo.
So those are some of the largest
Qualcomm customers. And they actually
drive the Android ecosystem. And that's
our mobile strategy. And fully aligned
with Google. And it's working. And I was
you know I'm not to get into a lot of
the investor conversation. But we're
also happy we became in a beneficiary
of the shifts that we saw in the
marketplace. As Huawei became a smaller
OEM as a result of the sanctions. We saw
the rise of a lot of the other OEMs from
China. Especially for China domestic
market Xiaomi OPPO Vivo. They moved to
the premium category. They're all doing
that with Qualcomm. So we're actually
very fortunate and happy with the
position we are in mobile business. We
do have an Apple relationship. We
provide modem technology to Apple. It's
a multi year relationship. Apple has
been very public that they are
investing to develop their own modem.
But the Qualcomm strategy has been
clear. We're really focused on
Snapdragon. Our mobile
strategy is not defined by providing
a cellular modem to Apple. Our mobile
strategy is this that we just talk
about it. It's about the unique thing
of Snapdragon. It has every single
technology integrated into a single
SoC. It provides a premium
experience. And that's what we're doing
and focusing on the Android ecosystem. I
don't know if I can ask you this kind
of question. It's like picking your
children or something like this. But
what smartphone the Snapdragon. You
mentioned Samsung Galaxy S22. One
plus those are phones I personally
really enjoy. What phone do you currently
use. Or do you have multiple phones. I
do have multiple phones but I do use
Galaxy S22. That's your favorite one.
All right. Well you heard it here first
folks. Okay so excellent. Can Qualcomm
also let's take a brief step away from
mobile. And take on Intel and Apple
and other such companies in the laptop
and desktop space. So the nature of what
a computer is seems to be changing. It's
like smartphones like merging. It's all
being a smartphone just with the biggest
screen or something like this. So what
is the future of that look like. Before
I answer that question. Let me just step
back a little bit. Because and I'm sure
we can we can talk more about those
things. But the the reality is Qualcomm
is changing a lot. And we use I know we
spend a lot of time talking about 5G
and smartphone and Snapdragon. And I
think that has been what had defined
Qualcomm for many years. But the
reality is even consistent with that
5G conversation. Which is a technology to
connect everything. Qualcomm is also
changing. Our technology that was in
many cases designed for phones. And we
said at the beginning. Connectivity and
processing. Is going to virtually every
industry. And as a result Qualcomm
is really changing with it. And expending
to a number of different addressable
markets. Some of those markets is the
PC. As you talk about it. The the
conversions of mobile and PC. And the
reason I'm excited about this. Because
you see a lot of things happening that
bring this right front and center when
you think about the future technology.
So what we learn with the pandemic. Is
that the number one use case of
personal computers. Is communications.
It is interesting when you think about
that. That's the number one use case on
a PC today is communications. It's
actually funny because in the cellular
industry. Actually I'll say let me step
back. In the telecom industry. We've been
chasing this killer application of
video telephony for decades right. I
remember. Back then in the wire line.
Even before the internet and IP ISDN.
You remember those AT&T desk phones of
a little screen. And I said you can do
video telephony. We don't watch that. In
back to the future too. Then when we
started developing 3G said people said
what's the application for having data
to itself. All video telephony. Then we
started doing 4G. And in the beginning
people said well why do you need all
this broadband. All video telephony. But
it took a pandemic. To make video
telephony. The killer application. And
that's now the number one use case on a
PC. So now think about that for a
second. Personal computers now. There
are technologies that people when they
are going to buy a PC. They didn't care
much about it. Now they do. Camera.
Camera. How good is the camera. The audio.
Is that connected. How good is the
connectivity. Do you have the latest and
greatest Wi Fi in cellular. What's the
battery life. Because you're going to be
working from anywhere. Sometimes you
need to ask. Sometimes you're not. So all
those things. What's the portability
like. So those things started to change
how we should think about the PC. But I
won't stop there. Let me talk about
another trend. So in it. And all come as
a result of what we saw the pandemic.
Let's say that you are. You're an
engineer. You're the computer aided
design. You have advanced desktop
computer or workstation in your office.
But you want to work from home someday. So
you're not going to move that to your
home. So what do you need to do. You're
going to have to rely on that. You're
going to run that on the cloud. And you
can run another cloud. You need high
bandwidth. Because you almost want the
cloud. To be. The same as your computer
for that use case. That's the 5g on
demand computing use case. The use 5g
is almost a link between two computers.
But then. You know CIOs are saying well
my workforce is going home for some
days. I want all the data to be in the
cloud. You look at for example Microsoft
OneDrive. Or the ability to collaborate.
You need the bandwidth. So that when you
put all of those things together. You
start thinking about what is the next
generation PC. And that's the
opportunity for Qualcomm. I'm just giving
an example. Back in Mobile World
Congress. Recently Lenovo. They have a
line of enterprise laptops called the
ThinkPad. I'm sure you're familiar with
it. So they announced the ThinkPad
based on Snapdragon. With 5g on. 28
hours of battery life. So that's
next generation. It's just a nice screen
with extremely high. Nice screen and
keyboard. And extremely high connectivity
to maybe an even more like a more
powerful machine in the cloud. Something
more the data connecting to the data
connecting to compute all that kind of
stuff. You have the camera
capabilities. Let me go one step more.
Microsoft talking about some of the
features they're doing now. Using on
Windows 11. Using Snapdragon. Remember
we talk about a Snapdragon has an AI
processor inside there. So one of the
cool features Microsoft's talking about
it is. You can be on a team's call. And
you can make sure your eyes are looking
at the camera. 100% of the time.
Well that's an interesting so they can
be talking about that. And you do that
with AI. Yes. That's really tricky to
pull off. For example the reason I'm a
huge stickler for doing these in person.
These conversations in person. It's
really tough to get right. But it's a
worthy challenge. So that's where the
metaverse hopes to. So like I just
because you said the importance of this
telephony. Of humans connecting
teleporting themselves. Getting that
right is really difficult. There's a lot
of people hate Zoom meetings. But that
doesn't mean you can't improve that
experience. And get rid of the hate. A
lot of people hate talking to the car
too. Because the voice. The natural
language processing is terrible. But when
it's not. It's a beautiful thing. So
getting that right is. This is an
opportunity. This is an opportunity.
Think about it. It starts with the PC
making. The PC giving you a better
experience for teams. But then. It goes
right back into. This trend of
connecting physical and digital spaces.
And all the work we're doing. With the
metaverse and virtual reality and
the meta reality and the future is. Why
not. Call somebody or connect with
somebody with a hologram. It's possible.
And also to mention. Some. Increasing
amount of intelligence in our cars. So
semi autonomous autonomous cars and the
interactivity between human and. And car.
Which for me things are. Really
exciting. Let me ask you a big question.
So when when aliens again now on the
other side. Right. And humans destroy
themselves through nuclear war centuries
from now. Let's hope not. Let's hope
not. But in case you know let's just
hypothetical thought experiment. And
they write a history of humanity in the
twenty first century. What would they
remember Qualcomm. In the twenty first
century as a company would be a car
company. Would it like think of all the
crazy pivots that might happen the next
like. Fifty years. Because because you're
thinking you said. Qualcomm enables all
of these things with 5G and they'll be
probably. Other G's. It keeps increasing.
So basically connectivity and
computation. And everything becomes
connected and everything is capable of
computation. Might you be become a
robotics and car company. I will argue
we already an automotive company today
and but. Let me tell what I. Would I
like Qualcomm to be. Remember and
recognize for. I think everyone. The
knows Qualcomm. Immediately. You know
connect us pun intended. To connectivity
and wireless. But the reality is. We're
been actually the company providing
intelligence. And in processing. To
everything on the edge. Everything
outside the data center. That's we're
doing. Those billions of devices are
going to be connected. And and that's
kind of explain when we talk about the
connected intelligent edge. To be on
phones. Cars. B. C. and all of those. And
the broader I. O. T. as we talk about
everything will be connected intelligent.
And that's what we want Qualcomm to be
recognized for. So by the way for people
who are not familiar. There's some
technical jargon. But people use the
word edge. Like edge computing. It's up
by the way that's probably changing
what that even means. It's basically
everything that's not a giant thing
that's make a lot of noise in a
building somewhere. So it's mobile
devices. And the mobile devices of all
kinds of well. A refrigerator is not
mobile. But it would be edge. So it's
like what's a sandwich. That kind of
discussion. But basically edge
computing. Is is. The edge of that
expanding space you mentioned. That
Qualcomm is trying to. Connect. And
enable with computation. Here's a simple
way to describe. What the edge. Is an
edge computing is. I think as we think
about the evolution of the data center.
You need to bring the computational
closer to the devices. Also when you
put the computation together with the
connectivity. At the same time. You're
going to see a lot of advancement of
artificial intelligence. Happening
closer. Or at the device. Look it's a
very. I have a simple way to describe.
Remember. In the beginning of this
conversation we talk about. In the 4G
era. Broadband. And mobile computing
evolve side by side. If you're going to
have broadband you might as well have a
computer in the palm of your hand. So
we needed to invest in those two
technologies. In 5G AI develops side by
side. You're connected to the cloud 100
percent of the time. You have a high
bandwidth. And you have now a smart and
intelligent thing that can make decision
in real time. Provide context information
to the cloud to make the models more
accurate. And as well compare and
contrast to the cloud. So there's going
to be an exponential development AI
happening. With. All the edge devices. The
devices they're outside the data center.
And computation is going to go alongside
that. And a great example that's the car.
The car. You know. We haven't talked much
about the car. But you know Qualcomm is
now. You could argue was as much as an
automotive company as a wireless
company working 26 global brands. And
it's easy to see. If you look at our
mobile heritage. And we talk about
form factors. Thermal. Battery life.
You're not going to put a server in a
trunk of a car. But you need as much
computational capabilities. And as we
see Qualcomm. Providing. You know as the
car become a connected computer on wheels.
We provide the computational. And all
the sensors for you to do assisted
driving. For the new digital cockpit
experience. Connecting the car to the
cloud. And it's all of that's happening
at the end. This Qualcomm want to be the
brain. Of a lot of autonomous vehicles
in the future of different. You said
brands. Like Mercedes BMT. I don't know
whatever. Just whatever car. You know.
Cars have the sexy thing they do. And
then it defines their brand. And so on.
And then there's the brain. That
doesn't need to have branding suppose.
You know. So does Qualcomm see that. Or
will I be able to buy a Qualcomm car.
Like literally. No. You're not going to
be able to buy a Qualcomm car. But we
are ready. We're ready. On our way. To
become. You know the brains of the car.
The way you should think about Qualcomm
automotive strategy is. The car
companies. Realize. They need to become
technology companies. You just look for
example. Of the market cap. Of some of
the new. Electrical. Commerce. And
compare them with. With the legacy. Car
companies. Which one is that I heard of.
Well let's just use an example. One of
them lives in Austin. Let's say Rivian.
Right. Rivian. Oh that one too. Yes. You
know the car companies are not going
away. It's actually a mistake not to bet
in the car companies. The car companies
need a technology partner. That will
provide. The digital chassis. For them.
And that's what we're doing. So if you
look at Qualcomm we talk about a
Snapdragon digital chassis. So. We. Want
to be the preferred technology partner.
Off. The car companies and I think it's
working. Strategy is working right now.
So basically. Helping company. The car
companies accelerate into this. Into
becoming technology companies. Connecting
the car to the cloud. We design the
interior of the digital cockpit
experience. And provide the computation
and sensor capabilities for autonomy
and assisted driving. On the topic of
robots. When millions or billions of
robots roam the earth in the future.
Among us humans. And I am. For one.
Concerned. In a small percentage. But
largely I'm excited about that future.
Will Qualcomm. Be. The thing that powers
their brain. We have an in our IOT
business. Which has been one of the
fastest growing business for us. A
number of robotics engagement. So I'll
give you some example. In. If you look
of the Amazon Astro. You familiar with
that. There's two. There's two
Snapdragon in there. There is. This is
really exciting. They're supposed to
ship it to me. Where is it. Okay. But
anyway. That's really cool. I didn't know
it was Snapdragon. Yeah. We we're
working with robotics in industrial.
Of course. Drones. You know. We're
getting. More and more traction for
robotics. Sorry to interrupt. Industrial
robotics too. You said industrial.
Especially when you think about. What's
going to happen. With. The factory of
the future. The industrial side of the
future. The warehouse of the future.
When you bring. Five G. For example to
it. And you have. A number of different
use cases and. In. And then you see a
lot of robotics application. And. And of
course. Drones. And. The most famous. I
will consider that a robot. The most
famous. Robot. In the world right now.
It's powered by Snapdragon. Which is
the Mars. Ingenuity helicopter. Yeah.
The whole helicopter. The cameras and
everything. It's powered by Snapdragon.
And. Talking about. Exciting thing for
an engineer. The same Snapdragon that
goes to a phone. And it can go to a
galaxy phone. For example Samsung. The
same. Not a special one. Went all the way
to Mars. Is exploring other planets
looking for alien life. And maybe gets
to meet him. Wouldn't that be
interesting. If a snapdragon is the
thing that first sees an alien. Is like
what the hell. We did not program this
in the computer vision. I once used
example to go back to the
conversation we had about quality. As
an engineer. You need to make sure it
works. Can you imagine if it gets over
there in Mars and it doesn't work. Listen
this is very stressful. What NASA
with SpaceX with all those companies
are doing is extremely stressful. The
room for mistakes is. Is tiny. But
that's super exciting for an engineer
once again. There's been a global
semiconductor chip shortage. So from
your perspective. Just to be
interesting to get your expert
analysis of the situation. What do you
think are the main reasons. And how is
quality affected. How can it help. In
this. In the future. Things like it.
Okay that's a. That's a. A big topic of
conversation. And we only have five
minutes. So I'll try. I'll try to be as
objective as I can. So first let's
talk about what caused it. And I. You
know you hear a lot of different things.
I would try to put it within the right
context. The first thing that caused it
really. Is the acceleration of digital
transformation. Of pretty much. Everything
in every industry. Every industry has
been digitally transformed. And as such.
The amount of semiconductors that are
required is much larger. Just to give
you a practical example. If you think
about the automotive as an example. The
cars there are you. There's cars there
are launch a new model launching today.
The new model launching today most
likely has ten x the amount of chips.
Off the prior model. And the model is
people working on this coming in next
probably ten x that one. So you see the
amount of silicon and in billions of
things become smart. More and more data
goes to the cloud. The data center grows.
So the floor for semiconductor
consumptions went up by a lot. Then you
have things that aggravated this. The
pandemic aggravated this. There is a
couple trends. From the pandemic. The
enterprise transformation of the home. The
home became an enterprise massive
amount of upgrades on broadband and iot.
The office. Has changed to the way we
work now. In including the ability to
support collaboration tools and video.
Then you have. The. Higher demand. For
for products. Doing the pandemic. Because
people wanted to be connected. People
bought new phones and new tablets and
new computers. New gaming. So all of
those things came on top of that. As.
That aggravated the issue. But they're
not the main issue. The main issue is.
It's actually. A long term growth. Of
digital. So what i'm hearing you say. Is.
The pandemic was not the cause. It was
an aggravation. Is an aggravation. So. Is
there a way. We can support. As a human
civilization. In terms of manufacture. In
terms of supply. The kind of growth that
you're talking about. In devices and so
on. Is there. High level ideas you can
save. What that's required there. Yes and
i think that's. The second part of the
answer. So what's happening now. How are
we gonna get out of this. So. We see a
lot. Of capacity investments put into
place by the industry. You know we had
invested a lot of our suppliers. A lot
of the suppliers. Had made. Plans about.
You know. Increasing the capacity industry
explaining to double. It's total
semiconductor manufacturing capacity.
Within the next. Five years an example. So
that's already happening. And then you
see things which are actually good.
They're good. The initiative such as the
United States chips act. And now the
European chips act. The United States
chips acts about fifty two billion
dollars. The Europeans about forty three.
Their goal combined. Is to get at least
fifty percent of the consumption. With
manufacturing stalled within the US.
And European geographies. And that's
also very good. That's yet another.
Incentive for more manufacturing capacity
be built. And to be built. With a
geographic distributed way. Which that's
how you plan supply chains. So those.
Those I think are good things. So if
anything we learn. Through the crisis. Is
this a my conductor. Is important. My
conductor companies are important. And
we need to invest in semiconductors.
Returning to the grilling of the CEO. The
hard questions. This is almost for my own
education of the space. You mentioned
regulators. Qualcomm paid out and
received payment of billions of dollars
and settlement and fines. There seems to
be a lot of huge lawsuits in the space.
How do you explain that. Does. Does this
get in the way of innovation. Or does it
promote it. I will rephrase it by saying
they used to be. A lot. Of lawsuits in
this space. In addition. Of. Of what we do
in semiconductors. You know our processors
and our our modems. The Snapdragon
platform. We also have a licensing
business. Which has been a part of the
company since the beginning. As the
largest. Inventors. Of the essential
technology. In. Two G. CDMA. Three G. Four
G. And five G. You know and Qualcomm
contribute that to the standards. So we
always had this model that. Rather than
invent the technology and be the only
one producing the products we license
so everyone can produce it. And. And as
such we receive intellectual property.
For the standard essential patents. As
part of our past dispute with Apple.
That's behind us now. Your friends now.
They're. They're. They're my customers.
And. And as part of that I think the. The
licensing model. Yes. Got tested. In. I
think in every geography. And we
succeeded. In every single geography. To
validate. The. Pro competitive. The
next of this model. I think the. The
fair reasonable non discriminatory
aspect of this model. And I would argue
that. Besides being the most successful
licensing business to date. And the
industry. Probably the one that's been
battle tested. And this most stable.
Because there's not a single. Jurisdiction
that we have not. Had to validate that
model. So. It's part of our past. And what
he creates is probably create a lot of
stability. No licensing business. But
having said that. The growth of the
company is in the semiconductor space.
And the semiconductor. So licensing is
you come up with a pretty good idea. You
have a bunch of smart people coming up
with cool ideas. And then once you come
up with that idea. You sell that idea to
others. They get to use it. That's
essentially what a license. The license
revenue we have. Is. Is for the. What we
call the SCP. Standard essential patents.
That are part of. The. Two G. Three G. Four
G. And five G. Standards. So if you want
to build anything with five G. You need
it to. Get a license from Qualcomm.
Because uses Qualcomm. Essential
technology is part of the standard. And
a slightly different model. Or a lot
different model. The semiconductor. Is
you design. You inject a bunch of
fascinating ideas. How to build the
snapdragon. And then there's. Because it's
a fabulous company. You have somebody
build. The. This. The. The chip. And it
goes into a phone with the branding and
all that kind of stuff. And. And that
has less kind of. Players involved. It's
not a license. We sell the product. In
the semiconductor. We don't license
semiconductor technology. We build
products. And we sell products. This is
your first year as a CEO. No. Not one
year yet. Not one year yet. Yeah. Let's
hope it'll be in June. It'll be one year.
Okay. This is a. A company that's
involved. With a lot of fascinating
technologies. And it's touching the lives
of billions of people. A lot of
complicated stuff. Like I said, licensing
technologies. You have to collaborate
with manufacturers. You have to then work
with however many you said car companies
and all these clients and so on. And you
have to. You know with with tech
companies. Apple and so on. What's that
like? What lessons have you learned
about leadership? And maybe about
yourself as a human being from this
first. Almost a year. Soon to be a year
as a CEO of this incredible, this
complex, this large company. That's a
little bit of a question. Let me answer
in reverse order. First thing that I
learned. And I think it's probably
common. Across CEOs. Especially in our
industry. Yes. It will be great if I had
more time. I think there's. Especially
because we're growing so many areas. And
there's so many things to learn. So many
relationships to build. Time to spend
with a number of different technologies.
And. And. But I kind of reflect really
the size of the opportunity that exists
for Qualcomm. Qualcomm. It is really
growing in a number of different
directions. All at the same time. And
so it did got busier. And part of this
is because I'm spending a lot of time
understanding the new industries we're
going in and building
relationships. Second thing, which is a
lot to do with how I think about things
and a little bit of my personality. At
the end of the day, business
partnerships really done by people. And
I think the importance of having trusted
relationships for the long term is
extremely important. And I've been
dedicated to do that as CEO. We're not
a company that plays for the short term.
We don't. And when we build new
partnerships, we expect that to be for
decades. And so I spend time doing that.
And I think that's important for Qualcomm.
The other part of your question is we do
have a lot of opportunities in all
different areas. What we like
and I've been fortunate enough to become
CEO at a time that a lot of the trends
are pointing to our technology. We talk
about some of them. We talk about
merger of physical and digital spaces.
We talk about the transformation of the
automobile. We talk about the merge of
computing and mobile. The enterprise
transformation of the home. There are
many of those trends. And those trends
create opportunities for Qualcomm to be
providing technology first and as such
we're in a hurry. So I'm in a little bit
of a hurry because I think the
opportunity is incredible for technology
but having fun and enjoying the job.
Is there a burden because of so much
what you said is partnerships and
almost like friendships, connections
with other human beings. Me as an
introvert that has a lot of social
anxiety, that seems extremely
stressful. So is there that burden on
your shoulders? You have to wake up every
day and talk to friends you've had for
many years. It could be, you know, and
then convince them and make
partnerships with them. Talk with them.
Describe to them the future. Sell them an
idea and then yourself grow because you
don't know what the heck the future is
going to be like. You have to project
both confidence and humility. All those
kinds of things. Is that exhausting?
It is exhausting but it's something I
do like to do and it's not only with
partners really. It's also internally to
your employees. I think to get alignment
on the vision and faith in the vision
and execute and at the end of the day
we're very fortunate. We have a lot of
smart people. So people when if they're
aligned with the vision they know what
to do and then of course as CEO you
have to convince your investors that
that's the right idea as well.
If you can put on your wise sage hat.
Do you have advice for young people in
high school and college? You yourself
started from the humble beginnings in
Brazil. Maybe a bit of a wild risky
decision to go to Japan and now are at
the head of one of the biggest, most
successful, most impactful companies in
the world. Given that story can you give
advice to young people today that you
know how they can have a career or just
the life they can be proud of? I think
the first thing and of course all
those answers are going to relate to
my own experience right. The first thing
is it always work for me to have a
plan. Even if the plan is just what I'm
going to do in the next two years but
what do I want to do? Where do I want to
go? I think it's
important for people especially young
people is to really
have a dream and go pursue it. I mean
have dreams not go back to bed to sleep
is really what do you want to
accomplish and then what it's going to
take to do that and then believe in
yourself. Like I said I joined
Qualcomm as an engineer and I didn't
have any plans when I joined to be CEO
but I do want as an engineer what I
wanted to do, where I want to
contribute what I wanted to work on and
then and then keep evolving from that
point in time. The other thing is this
is an advice, it's more of like career
advice that I got early in my
career was extremely helpful for me
and I will give that advice to everyone
that is interested.
Spend time understanding what are the
things you're good at and what are
things you're not. Like what is that
real border between your area of
competence and your area of
incompetence and once you see that once
you see that you know exactly what you
have to work on and you can say I can
if I did that's what I want to go next
this is the gap I need to do it and it's
it's faster when you can identify
yourself before other people can tell
you then it leads to
automatically the next step. Surround
yourself the people they're very good
the things that you're not.
So yes you're radically honest about the
things that you're not good at but
given what you're passionate about you
need to get good at or you would like to
get good at and surround yourself by
those people. How often did the plans you
make actually work out? You said it's
important to make plans you didn't say
anything about it's important to execute
on those plans. More than 50% success rate.
Try to keep it above 50.
What was the whole why did you end up in
Japan? You know I've been fortunate
enough to work in cellular and wireless
my entire career so I I always like
communications. When I enter engineering
school my dad was electrical engineer
but he worked with the utility company
he wanted to
me to graduate in traditional electrical
engineering like energy generation
distribution
and but I like electronics communication
so I end up doing both and
and I always like communication was
fascinated by wireless communication so
my first job at a college is start
working for a Japanese company down in
Brazil
was NEC and within about a year in they
transferred me to
Tokyo asked me to go to the headquarters
and
it was the first time I left Brazil and a
little bit different from Brazil
culturally different is in the other
side of the planet
and and that's how it started you said
your father's an electrical engineer
do you think what you're doing now
makes your father proud I think he's very
proud I think
especially you know
he tells me that you know I'm still the
same person never change and
does he still does he give you advice
does he criticize what you're doing
tell you how to improve my my mom and
that's to give me advice today I'm very
fortunate for that but
he's proud also proud because there are
very few Brazilians
that have you know achieve a position as
CEO of
of a company in size of Qualcomm and I
and I do know that that also I carry a
burden I
you know I especially for the Latino
community
to be an inspiration for them and make
sure I set a good example
so not just your your mom and dad but
the culture the people that were
originally your home
do you uh you know life is finite
do you think about your own mortality
look I'm a I'm a devout Christian and
so I'm a big believer that there's
this is just a transition and but
don't spend a lot of time thinking
about that I'm
I am somebody good better and different
that
try as much as possible to leave the
present and that's what I do
and try to make the present better on
this
on this place here on earth absolutely
absolutely and that some of these
technologies some of these ideas are
kind of
a different kind of immortality as well
because they
they propagate through time and have
impact on people
in the best possible way so technology
can be scary can
technology can be destructive but it
seems like in the end
it can be it can do a lot of good
more good there's more good than bad
what do you think is the meaning of
this whole thing I asked you about
aliens observing us
what what's the meaning of life
Christiano
what's the meaning of life
easy questions
that's not an easy question at all uh
I think that's uh
that's a question at least for me you
have to answer individually
uh but uh I do believe we're all here
for purpose
you know I
I you know in my prayers I always ask
that
you know I I stay on track whatever my
purpose is
but I do believe we're here for purpose
and we need to do the best we can
during the time we have on this earth
so that means
create beautiful things for you
as an engineer yes and and create
beautiful things yes
what about love
what's the role of love in the human
condition
love's very important and uh it's an
essential part of uh being human
it comes in the package
and uh I think if you look at the
situation
what's happening right now I think uh
you look at the situation with some of
the underprivileged uh
communities you look at the harmless
situation
I think we all need more love
yeah and I think people that build
incredible technology sometimes forget
the love part like those are
all it's all integrated
there's no thinking about humanity
is really important when you build
tools that empower that humanity
because there's I think I at least
that person I believe we're all capable
of both evil and good
and we have to build technology build
societies build governments build
communities that um inspires to
to connect with the good part within
all of us
I'm a big believer that technology is
at the end the force for good
and if just look
if you just look you know not trying to
move away from a deep discussion to a
more uh specific technical one
but if we start the conversation
talk about smartphones
and uh smartphones really the first time
that you could say that everybody in
the world was able to connect to the
internet and connect to each other
and I think what uh that empowerment
that that provided
it's an incredible force for good
well the company you lead
the the technology you've created
one of them that I'm especially excited
about which is snapdragon the whole
line of processors there
currently I would say at about 10
billion transistors
if you think about the human brain
it's about a hundred billion neurons
so I think uh 11
samsung galaxy 22s s22s are already
smarter than me
and that's being nice uh to me
I'm really honored to use but you're
extremely valuable time with me
even though you said Pillai is the
favorite player
beyond all of that
I think you're an incredible person
incredible leader
and you lead an incredible engineering
company so thank you for doing that
oh thank you so much
thank you for the kind words
really a pleasure having this
conversation I really had a lot of fun
doing it
and uh thank you for having me in your
podcast
thanks for listening to this
conversation with Christiana Oman
to support this podcast
please check out our sponsors in the
description
and now let me leave you with some
words from Stephen Hawking
for millions of years
mankind lived just like the animals
then something happened
which unleashed the power of our
imagination
we learned to talk
and we learned to listen
speech has allowed the communication
of ideas
enabling human beings to work together
to build the impossible
mankind's greatest achievements
have come about by talking
and its greatest failures by not talking
it doesn't have to be like this
our greatest hopes could become
reality in the future
with the technology at our disposal
the possibilities are unbounded
all we need to do is make sure we keep
talking
thank you for listening
and hope to see you next time